Lg/revisit basics (#52)
substrate-developer-hub/docs-sandbox: source/docs/main-docs/02-fundamentals/blockchain-basics.md

> 

Reviewer: Suggestion to rewrite the two lines above: 

Because of the complexity involved in building the core components a blockchain requires, most blockchains are forked from the repositories of existing blockchain codebases, enabling developers to add new features by modifying existing code instead of writing everything from scratch. 
For example, the Bitcoin repository was forked to create: Litecoin, ZCash, Namecoin and Bitcoin Cash.
Similarly, the Ethereum repository was forked to create Quorum, POA Network, KodakCoin, and Musicoin.

Author: Modified a little differently.

> ![Blockchain forks](../../img/tutorials/01-create-your-first-chain/forks.png)

Reviewer: Nit pick: this graphic is nice I suppose, but not really serving much of a purpose in my opinion. If we keep it, I'd advocate to avoid referencing specific chains and abstract the references to: Bitcoin forks X, Y and Z; Ethereum forks X,Y and Z.

Author: Yeah, I just reused what was in the tutorial. I don't think it adds value, just color :-D

Author: Removed the image.

By submitting and voting on proposals—referenda—the blockchain community can determine how the blockchain evolves in an essentially democratic process.
To participate in governance, however, most blockchains require users to maintain a significant stake of token in an account.

## Applications running on a blockchain

> Applications that run on a blockchain—often referred to as decentralized applications or dApps—are typically written as **smart contracts**. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Applications that run on a blockchain, often referred to as decentralized applications or dApps, are typically written as **smart contracts**. 
```

Strange to me you use a hyphen rather than a comma.

Author: Rendered as em dashes (—)

> A smart contract is a program that executes transactions on behalf of users under specific conditions.
> Developers typically write smart contracts to run on a blockchain to ensure that the outcome of programmatically-executed transactions is recorded and can never be changed. 
> Traditionally, smart contracts don't access the blockchain directly and, instead, run using fixed rules and restrictions—for example, the consensus model, storage limitations, and fee structure—that are defined by the underlying blockchain.
> Smart contract developers often accept these limitations as a tradeoff that enables faster development time with fewer design decision.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A smart contract is a program that runs on a blockchain and executes transactions on behalf of users under specific conditions.
Developers can write smart contracts to ensure that the outcome of programmatically-executed transactions is recorded and can never be changed. 
Yet, with smart contracts alone developers don't have access to some underlying blockchain functionality—such as the consensus, storage or transaction layers—and instead, abide by a chain's fixed rules and restrictions.
Smart contract developers often accept these limitations as a tradeoff that enables faster development time with fewer core design decisions to make.
```
